(percussion music)
Stephen Bassett's website, Paradigm Research Group,
is one of the top clearinghouses for documents
regarding governmental coverups on the disclosure
of UFOs and alien contact.
I caught up with Stephen after nearly five years
to see how disclosure is progressing
and the repercussions of a government run by secrecy.
Stephen, it's been about five years since we last
saw each other, which was in Sedona,
now we're in California, southern California today.
And a lot has happened with your group,
I mean, Paradigm Research Group,
a lot has happened in the last five years,
and I thought what we'd do at first is just have
you catch us up on what you're doing now,
what has progressed since we last talked?
Okay, it is good to be back with you,
it's amazing that five years has gone by.
I know, just zipped.
Well Paradigm Research Group was founded in '96.
It is an advocacy organization.
I guess you could say I'm a political,
or exo-political activist.
It is, in fact, not a research group,
but rather it started by my registering as a lobbyist
for a number of organizations, research organizations,
thus the name Paradigm Research Group,
but in fact it's a political activist.
It was created for one reason only,
and that is to resolve the UFO, ET question
at the basic level, once and for all,
through political means.
Why political means?
Because a scientific resolution
was not possible because of the fact
that the United States government
instituted a formal policy, which was well underway
by the early 1950's, but sort of started 1947,
that this issue, in fact, would be embargoed
from the people, acknowledgment would be embargoed.
They would undermine research, if necessary.
They would tinker with the media,
they would ridicule the issue,
ghetto-ize it, as I like to say,
because they did not want the public
too, how would you say, involved with it.
They would prefer that it was left to them.
It was a national security matter, and what have you.
And so you had a direct intervention by the state
in the process of learning.
Somewhat similar to what the Catholic Church did
when they directly intervened in the process
of learning the nature of the solar system,
the Copernican revolution.
They have since apologized for that, which is good.
This is not something religion or the state should do.
Even they often are short-term means,
stay in the truth business, that gives you the best results.
Anyway, because of that intervention, the truth embargo,
the citizen scientist could have proven the ET issue
10 times over, it didn't matter what they did,
it didn't matter how diligent they were in their research,
it was not going to be acknowledged.
The only way this issue gets resolved at the basic level
is for the government to end that policy.
The ending of the truth embargo would be the disclosure
event,
Right.
which is the goal of the political activism.
It is the goal that Paradigm Research Group seeks,
as well as all the organizations it works with, seek.
It is the goal of the movement.
The disclosure event is the formal acknowledgment--
Were you at disclosure,
you were at the disclosure event in D.C.,
Greer's disclosure event.
Well, it was,
it was a witness press conference put on
by the disclosure project.
Right.
So it was part of the disclosure movement.
But you were there.
And I was there, absolutely.
And I was there too,
and that's when we first met, yes.
Yes, that's right, I've been to every one
of the press conferences held there.
But the point is, that was a really pivotal
opportunity.
It was an opportunity,
it was a more powerful event in this process
that we've been following, and as I've stated many times,
could well have had a fairly dramatic impact
were it not for nine one one.
That event, which was only four months later,
essentially eliminated any of the potentials
from that witness press conference,
the threads were not followed up, the media went elsewhere,
and it was a significant setback to the disclosure,
disclosure process.
Well what struck me
about it was that room was full, there was media
from all over the world, and there were virtually no reports
that made the airwaves in the United States,
just a couple stations.
It did make the airwaves in other countries, but again,
this thing you're talking about, the truth embargo,
I remember one of the journalists for,
I think it was a local ABC affiliate, stood up at that time
and said, "We're not allowed to put this stuff on.
"I'll tell you, it's not like it's the first time
"we've heard about it."
And I remember, he was so impassioned,
he was actually angry when he was talking
about the fact that they're not allowed to,
and I thought, "What are you doing here with a camera?"
I pay a lot closer attention to these kind of events
and what the media does, in fact PRG,
one of its key functions, it's tracking the mainstream
media coverage of this issue.
And at the website, Paradigm Research Group,
you will see the largest mainstream media archive
in the world, which is now at over 5,000 articles
of mainstream coverage of the UFO issue.
So I tend to follow it.
So I happen to know that there was some coverage
of that event, it was...
minuscule,
compared to what it could have been.
Well, it wasn't appropriate, but there were
a number of articles, anyway, but it was 2001,
and the media, which is now turning our way,
which is coming around to our side,
was in the early stages of that.
And so it, I could show you that same event today
would get far more coverage.
Yes.
But there were things going on behind the scenes,
including ABC News, was seriously considering
investigating a number of those witnesses,
interviewing them, and bringing them on.
But the fact was is that nine one one ended that threat
and set the movement back
at least two years.
And in the following year, I know Steven Greer's
Disclosure Project, he started the movement in a somewhat
different direction, he started exploring the alternative
energy issues very intensely.
My next move was to run for Congress in 2002,
which I started early that year.
So about three or four months later,
my way of sort of getting back in the saddle
was to run for Congress.
'Cause I saw an opportunity to get on the ballot
in the eighth congressional district of Maryland,
right next to Washington.
And so I was able to do that, and that got me back going,
and then in 2004 is when I launched
the X-Conference in Washington, D.C.
And so we're picking up the activism,
other groups are doing their thing,
and we move forward from 2001.
Now we interviewed in 2005, four years later.
And definitely I was seeing
a significant change in media coverage, and we were starting
to see the full-fledged involvement of other countries.
Other countries started stepping out on the issue.
This starts around 2004,
this is a very important development.
France and a few others, didn't they start
declassifying documents?
Yes, it begins
in late 1999 when a French group
called COMETA releases the COMETA report, which concluded
that the extraterrestrial hypothesis was the only
way to explain this phenomenon.
This was a message, I'm pretty sure,
from the French government, through a non-governmental
entity, to the U.S., "Get on with it already."
And then four years later, Mexico announces
it's cooperating with UFO researchers,
it releases some information.
Brazil announces it's cooperating,
this is through their Air Force,
starts releasing their files.
And then France announced it's gonna release his files.
And so every year after 2004, every year we have
another country coming forward and starting to release
its, quote, UFO files.
Who are some of the recent ones since 2005?
Well, you had France,
the U.K.--
The U.K., right.
Canada, Denmark, Sweden,
Uruguay, Brazil,
Russia announced they might
be releasing Navy files, declassifying their Navy files
from underwater encounters, and then New Zealand,
I think, early this year.
It's about 11, all total.
We expect some more soon.
So that's a significant development--
Yes, it is.
that really gets underway
just about the time we're doing our interview.
And what is happening here is by doing this,
these nations are doing two things.
One, they are kind of getting on the right side
of the issue, meaning we're releasing our files proactively,
we're opening up, as it were.
Now, they're not releasing what you would call
smoking guns, and most of those countries
have such evidence, typically it would be in a form
of gun camera footage from their chase planes
and their defense air force systems, where they go up
and they chase these things and they film them.
That they don't release, but they're releasing files
that clearly are stimulating the issue,
they're being downloaded all over the world.
Millions and millions of downloads of these files
have taken place, so they're now accumulating
in servers all over the world.
And the other thing you're doing is sending a message
to the United States, "Look, we sort of had
"this understanding with you that goes back
"to the early '50's, that we would wait for you
"to decide when it was safe to tell the world
"about the extraterrestrials.
"Well, we're getting impatient.
"The Cold War has been over, what, nine,
"10, 12, 15 years and you haven't done anything yet."
And so this is a message they're sending, in my view.
And other things are happening.
There has been a very significant change
in the amount of coverage of this issue in China.
There's always been sightings in China,
but suddenly they're being covered in the media there,
and then that coverage is getting out
into the English language press.
And so China's in the news a lot about this,
including this remarkable stretch of about six months
where eight airports had to close down
because of sightings.
Now that's not common, right?
Let's count the times that an airport in the United States
has been closed down for UFOs.
One effort is under way in China
to sort of mitigate that by saying that the problem is
that all these new Chinese billionaires are buying
private jets and they're so special because they're so rich
they just fly wherever they want to,
and they're flying through restricted air space.
Well, it's possible, but you know,
if I was a recently wealthy Chinese billionaire,
I don't think I'd be flying my jet through a restricted
air space and risk having my wonderful life terminated
by a Chinese air force jet.
So something is going on there.
Coupled with the fact that China has an emerging
spage program, they plan to go to the moon,
they're thinking of going to Mars,
they've got satellites up there.
They've encouraged and been quite comfortable
with UFO research there for years.
Opens the possibilty that China
may be the one to move first on this.
And so these are the kinds of things that are going on.
Let me be clear.
The amount of things happening worldwide
related to the UFO question and disclosure processes
is now so much, I cannot keep up with it.
It is not possible to keep up with it.
And I'm devoted to doing that.
You're right, that's your job.
Now that's exactly what I expected.
It's very much like a pot boiling.
So you put it on, the temperature rises, right,
but before it actually boils,
you start seeing bubbles turning up, right?
Here and there and whatever.
And you're trying to follow them all,
but you can't quite keep up with them,
and then finally it boils.
We're right at the boiling point.
And you can see these bubbles are rising
all around at different places.
This is exactly what I've expected.
It's going to be very chaotic, well,
chaotic, not in a bad sense, with a great deal happening,
lots of speculation, predictions, new stories
happening very quickly, governments taking actions
one after the other.
This is what I anticipated happening prior
to the disclosure event.
Now, this could have been avoided if the U.S.
had acted proactively sooner.
But apparently the policy of the U.S. government,
at least, I say government, I'm talking about
the military intelligence committees that run this issue,
it's not run by the United States Congress,
it's not run by the President, that they have decided
to sort of hold out until the last minute.
Why, have you been able to glean
anything as to the motivations of taking
this position after all these years?
It seem archaic, I mean--
Well we don't know
for certain, because they don't tell us,
I mean, remember it's a secret.
I just wondered if you've heard,
you have access to people, I've just wondered
if you've heard any useful speculation even
as to why they're dragging their feet.
Useful speculation, yes.
The assessment, the best assessment we have
is that since 1991, when the Cold War was really over,
that, not surprisingly, the consensus
within those who truly manage this issue,
eventually move towards disclosure, meaning,
"Okay, we do need to bring this out, okay, fine."
So that's happened, we think, since 1991.
Exactly when it turned to a majority, yeah, but...
Now, just because the consensus is now to disclose,
doesn't mean, "Okay, we'll just do it."
They're down there looking at the total world picture
and trying to assess, is this a good time,
is this the year to do it, is the president somebody
we can work with, what's the situation
in the Middle East, and what have you.
And I'm sure that there are a lot of reasons
why they could justify holding off.
Plus, it is a big deal, I mean this is the biggest event
in human history, as far as I'm concerned,
measured on the ability for it to impact
the greatest number of people in the shortest
amount of time, nothing comes close in the past.
There've been some big events, nothing like this.
Within 72 hours of disclosure, 80 to 90%
of the entire world population will know this has happened.
And their whole world is going
to start changing a little bit.
So it's a big deal, and so consequently,
it's a nontrivial matter, and I'm sure
they're wrapped up in the logistics and how to go
about it, and so forth, and so they're kicking
the can down the road, thinking,
"Maybe the situation would be a little more conducive
"in July, or next year."
And so because they have taken that approach,
the rest of the world is not kicking the can down the road.
The disclosure movement is picking up steam,
other nations are stepping in.
And so by holding off, holding off,
we are creating the boiling pot scenario.
Well Jesse Ventura stepped up to the plate.
Ah, there's another development there.
Let's go there, amongst the main things--
Mainstream, mainstream, that's what's interesting
about Jesse, we know all this,
we've been in these circles a long time.
Jesse took it out to television.
We're not shocked.
Yeah, one of the many developments that I referred
to earlier, that we're trying to keep up with
in this near, about-to-boil pot,
is what I am now calling
the first true counter-insurgency
in opposition to rule by secrecy.
He said, "One of the most, there have been a number
"of major trends, threads since 1945."
And we don't have time to get into all of them,
but one of them is the emergency of secrecy
as an endemic tool of government,
worse than ever.
The rise of what I call the secret empires
in the United States, in the Soviet Union,
in communist China, in the United Kingdom,
in Israel, France, whatever, these are fully clandestine
operations operating classified status and they've grown
and grown and grown since '45.
Now the biggest one is the United States, without question.
It is the secret empire, and it's vast.
And increasingly, what you are seeing is governments,
corporations too, definitely corporations,
more and more conducting their operations
in secrecy, from a secret posture.
And as, obviously given the influence that governments
have over people, given the influence that huge corporations
have over people, this eventually becomes
rule by secrecy, as Jim Marrs calls it.
This isn't good, and we don't like it,
and it's causing a lot of trouble.
But the effort to sort of counter it
has been virtually non-existent.
There has been nothing approaching a true
secrecy reform movement.
There have been a few minor efforts at it,
a few books, but nothing of consequence.
Until, perhaps, recently, when I think a true
counter-insurgency begins.
And there are two parts of it that are worth noting now.
One of them is a true phenomena called WikiLeaks.
And the other, best example of this would be
the Conspiracy Theory program with Jesse Ventura
on Truth Television.
Let's first talk about Jesse Ventura.
I expected this show to be a typical schlock reality show.
Jesse, after all, was a professional wrestler, alright.
In fact, I think he was famous for a pink boa
that he used to wear.
Yes.
There was that part of his career path.
Right, right, but he's also a Navy Seal.
And a governor.
And eventually he became
governor of Minnesota, he is a unique person,
without question.
He is a courageous
person, I say that because what man would wear
a pink boa with that kind of vice.
Look, you gotta be courageous to be a Navy Seal,
you gotta be courageous to wear a pink boa.
Though I should ask him, if I ever meet him,
"Did you ever wear a pink boa to one of those
"reunions of Navy Seals?"
That would have been interesting.
But in any event, Jesse Ventura
becomes governor of Minnesota.
It's one of the most interesting elections
of the last 20 years.
He ran as an independent, he split the party vote,
and becomes governor, and it was really quite astounding.
He did it as a man dedicated to the truth,
frank, tell you exactly what he thinks,
people are craving that.
Yeah.
He had a wonderful persona, whatever,
he becomes governor of Minnesota.
And, forgive me if I'm recounting this, perhaps,
I'm hoping I'm recounting this accurately,
and he's spoken about this.
But my understanding was, it was that sometime
after he was elected, but perhaps before he
actually took office, he was called to a meeting
in Washington, and for whatever reason,
he wanted to go, he went.
And when he got there, he was in a setting which ended
up seeming almost like an interrogation.
Yes, he talks about this.
And he had people sitting in front of him,
and I think he concluded pretty quickly a lot
of them were CIA, and apparently what they really
wanted to know was really, "Who are you,
"and how did you become governor of Minnesota?"
And he didn't like it at all.
And I don't know how long he stuck around--
Well because domestic affairs are not
part of their purview, apparently, and he was saying,
"Well, why are you interrogating me?"
Well there's a whole lot of reasons why that
was a bad idea, and I think he told them off and left,
something to that effect.
And I think that that triggered in him a sense,
if he didn't already have it, that maybe something's
not quite right here.
So he goes on, he governs Minnesota,
he does pretty well, gets a lot of publicity.
He leaves politics,
and after a short amount of time
approaches NBC to do a television show
addressing all these issues that are in play.
I guess you could them the conspiracy issues,
but whatever, the controversial stuff.
And they, of course, loved it,
"Whoa, absolutely, go guy."
And they signed him up to a multi-million dollar contract.
He went out, created a couple of shows,
the pilots, I guess, brought them back,
and they just were shocked.
They just, "Oh my God, we can't possibly put that on."
And he said, "Fine, pay me anyway,
"don't do the show, but I still get my money."
He went off to Mexico, lived well, enjoyed himself,
I suspect probably did a lot of research.
And when his contract was up and he was free,
he comes back and he pitches the same show
to the Truth Television, True TV,
and they put it on, The Conspiracy Theory.
Okay, fine.
So I guess we could say, from the time he has
that meeting in Washington to the time he finally
puts that show on, Jesse Ventura has gotten
a pretty substantial self-education in the realities
of the 21st century and what has happened since 1945.
And so he shocks me
by putting on the show and just going
after every scab on every wound,
every sore spot the government's got, every issue
that people are sitting out there
grinding their teeth about.
And while it's, a lot of showmanship in it,
and it's definitely Jesse--
It's still
very gutsy.
the fact is, he is bringing
these issues into play, he is giving people like Alex Jones
some time and face time, and he's opening
up some doors that wouldn't be open,
he's going right up on the Hill,
he's sitting down in front of congressmen
and asking them questions they don't want to answer.
And so this show has the potential
to be a game changer.
Yes.
There've been two seasons.
It's worth noting that they stayed away from the UFO, ET
issue in those first two seasons.
Well, they did go to Area 51.
They did a somewhat non-UFO treatment of Area 51,
but I have high confidence that the UFO issue
is not far behind.
And so, okay, here you have on one hand
this former Navy Seal, with his big head
and his huge persona, standing in front of the camera
always at the end of the show, saying,
"I'm Jesse Ventura, and we're getting this done."
And that appeals to a certain segment of the population,
and I love it, and I love this guy,
and I hope to get to meet him.
Now, about the same time that he approaches Truth TV
to put this show together, something else is happening.
Out of Australia, a gentleman by the name
of Julian Assange, a computer hacker
and computer genius, makes a decision
to try to create the first major global
whistle-blower site, really, is what it is.
And it's a serious effort.
Money is raised, supporters are garnered,
the structure of it, the server structure of it
is developed in advance, his ability to travel
around the world is all developed in advance.
And then he launched this site, and immediately started
putting up documents from unnamed sources,
but nevertheless that are addressing issues
of abuse of power of one kind or another.
Doesn't get a lot of attention initially,
and it slowly grows over a period of three years.
Assange moves around the world very regularly,
doesn't stay in one place, he's an Australian citizen.
I hear a litlte bit from time to time,
I don't take special note until about six months ago,
when WikiLeaks apparently decides
to make a major move.
It gets a huge amount of information.
It's now pretty much established, I think,
and so they really initiate, I guess,
the counter-insurgency that I'm talking about.
And they put up on the web a de-crypted video
of an event in Baghdad where about 14 or 15 people
are killed by U.S. gunships.
This is a very difficult 36 minutes to watch,
but it puts WikiLeaks on the map.
In a period of seven months, this is now a global phenomena,
he is a worldwide phenomena, and he has upset
virtually the entire superstructure of world government.
Members of the United States Congress are calling
for his assassination in front of cameras,
I find that interesting.
Not surprisingly, charges have been brought against him
regarding sexual misconduct in Sweden, and what have you.
Brought against him with John, brought against
him--
Yeah, so where that's
gonna go, I don't know, but we're not surprised by this.
But what's interesting is that Julian Assange
is this 130-pound, dripping wet, mild-mannered,
sort of androgynous gentleman who has created
this vast enterprise that is turning
the world upside down for a whole lot of major governments
and institutions, and over here we have the Navy Seal,
and they're sort of two tracks.
Well, this, to me, take Truth Television Conspiracy Theory,
and there will be more shows like that,
I guarantee it.
And then you take WikiLeaks,
and whatever the outcome there,
and there will be more sites like this, I guarantee it,
together they represent the first true counter-insurgency
against rule by secrecy, meaning, the people are finally
saying, "We've had enough of this, okay.
"It's bad enough that you govern incompetently,
"but you govern from secrecy.
"We don't even know what you're doing,
"all we learn later is how much damage you've done."
And they've had enough.
Now, I'm not saying that WikiLeaks
is a perfect representation of this.
I'm not saying that Truth TV or Conspiracy Theory's
got everything right, but I am saying
that they truly reflect the fact that people are ready
now to take action against this, which needs
to be non-violent, it needs to be appropriate,
and it needs to be within certain bounds.
But, let me make it clear.
This is the first true test of the internet
to demonstrate its ability to empower people,
the collective empowerment of the global web.
This is really the first true test.
And I believe that if you look out at this vast
internet sea, that on the horizon a tidal wave
is building, it is heading for the shore,
and it is the global internet response,
not only to rule by secrecy, but to whatever governments
have in store for those who pursue that,
such as WikiLeaks.
Yes.
And I think, when it finally reaches the shore
of government and institutions and corporations,
it is going to be a mile high.
Unless they shut the web down, and I don't think they can.
I don't think they can either
because as we've joked about before,
if they try, some 12-year-old like Assange
will put it all back together again,
there's so many little geniuses out there.
That cat got out, that ship has sailed,
they let the cat out of the bag back in the early '90's.
I think most of the people that are in power
with bad intentions in our world didn't understand it
and it was gone before they could catch it.
At the same time, you have some intrusive
treatment, I think Alex Jones' site just went through this
recently, where Google had essentially taken Google
searches for his off, for a few, it was speculated
that it might last a few weeks, a slap on the hand,
but it lasted what, a couple days, a few days,
something like that.
But the point is, there will be attempts to suppress
and interfere on the internet, via Google.
Now this is a counter-insurgency, and this is,
I don't like to use martial metaphors, but this is a battle.
This is a war, there will be battles won and lost.
And so Amazon takes WikiLeaks off their server,
which is one of their key presence in the U.S.
A bunch of hackavists they're called now,
I love this new word, hackavists,
immediately go after the Amazon site.
They're going after sites in Sweden.
Now I'm not condoning illegal behavior,
I'm simply saying, that this is,
this is reality.
It's an appropriate
push back considering the degree of rule by secrecy,
as Jim Marrs states, that has occurred up to this point
in time, I think it's, it may be, and it may not be legal,
but it is an appropriate push back.
It is, it is going to be one of the most massive
examples of civil disobedience ever.
Look, this is the nature of the world.
Our government's hacking Chinese computers,
they're hacking our computers,
corporations are hacking each other.
The government's interfering with some citizen activities,
and, well, guess what, there are hackers out there
that are interfering with the government.
Look, it's all kind of wild and crazy,
but let's keep focused here.
Abuses of power and dysfunctional government
is now the greatest threat to a...
a functioning, peaceful, world, alright,
and solving our problems.
And one way or another, that has got to be reformed.
And it shouldn't shock anybody that the primary conduit
of that reform is gonna be the net.
But I'm not specifically talking about, necessarily,
hacking and that kind of stuff.
The fact is that the internet is the greatest
empowerment tool ever, and so, it's also,
say, people coming together on websites
and having a million strong subscribing to a website
that is designed to address secrecy reform,
or forming secrecy reform Facebook groups
with a million members, and communicating with each other
and raising funds online, and all the things you can do.
Forming political action committees, funding them
through the net, all of this is possible.
What really, we have not seen yet, and I'm not
criticizing people, because the net has only
really been around in full force for about
15, 16 years.
But we haven't even begun to use that resource.
But people are figuring it out, and when I say people,
remember, I forget how many people now are on the web,
but I think we're starting to get up
in the two billion range, two, three billion.
There's a half a million people on Facebook,
that's growing, that'll be a billion within probably a year.
And they're just starting to understand,
"Oh, well, I can do that," or,
"I can get on Skype and call people around the world
"for practically nothing," or, "I can form an activist
"thing," they're just starting to understand that.
And then the mindset of, "Okay, now that we can do this,
"let's come together, what is it that we want to do?"
And so the future of activism
is 10 million people contributing one dollar each
to a website or an organization through the web,
PayPal, one buck, with a design to go and address
a major issue with the U.S. government, the U.K. government.
Do you think those 10 million people are gonna
miss the dollar?
No, do you think the 10 million dollars
will be a really powerful thing?
Absolutely.
This is collective empowerment, which without the internet
you really can't do.
That's true.
With the internet and the kinds of things like PayPal
that are developing, it's all doable.
We're not there yet, but that will be part
of this counter-insurgency.
And I do not think that governments can win this one.
I think they have to lose here, and I think there are plenty
of people in government that want to lose,
meaning, you know, I know sorta how things are--
It's hard to play this game anymore.
Yeah, yeah, I know how things are,
I know I'm sort of part of it, but I'd rather not be.
So we have that, so I think they will kinda come over
to our side, and that ultimately, we win this.
For instance, I'll give you an example.
I have a hunch about nine one one.
It's not my area, and I don't get out there
and try to tell people what's going on.
But I have a hunch that nine one one
is gonna get resolved.
We're gonna find out about that.
I think we're gonna win that one.
Chemtrails, on chemtrails, initially,
I had serious doubts anything was going on.
After about five years, I'm starting to think,
yes, something is going on.
I have a feeling we're gonna win that one.
Alright, and that's gonna come out.
The internet has changed the game, the equation.
And so governments need to understand
that you can do your thing, but you actually
may be accountable for it.
It's like these politicians who haven't figured that out,
and they're going on camera, and they're saying
some stupid thing that they would have gotten
away with in 1985, but in the internet era
it's on YouTube the next day, suddenly it's being
investigated, they come up with some stupid response,
and their political career is over in a week.
It's like that.
It's getting harder
to spin it, with this much information available.
So the collective power of a billion people
focused through the net, right, even accounting
for the fact that the net is still a Wild West
and there's a lot of crazy stuff going on,
but there are ways to filter, there are ways
to cut through that, the impact of a billion people
with that kind of power.
Remember, the net is inexpensive.
I mean, it's free in every library,
you got build in wireless every computer.
And so a kid's got a computer,
he's got free internet access.
So that power, when it starts to really have an impact,
that's what makes me feel good about the 21st century,
barring some really dumb thing,
I think we can straighten this business out.
And the net, again, worship it,
it is the deus ex machina of our time.
It is a gift from the cosmos,
it's the greatest invention of all time.
And I know there are some people who would like
to go just live in a forest and get away from it all
and have an organic garden, and I appreciate that.
The thing is, I'm a tech guy, and some tech
is good and some tech is bad.
And the internet is the best thing
that's ever come down upon you.
Well, Scott and I would agree with that,
we're here talking to you, people are watching it
on the net, so you're preaching to the choir here,
but I agree with you, I agree with you.
But I want that message out there
because there's a lot of people that are
on the net right now and have no idea what they could do.
Point very well made, and I hope it's registering
with everybody out there who has a heart
that's willing to do something.
Meanwhile, what about this whole, we're talking
going back into the whole disclosure subject specifically,
and we're talking about another major influence
besides the net, is Hollywood, and what has Hollywood
been doing with this subject and why?
And who's orchestrating that and what do you see
happening down the road?
Well some of those bubbles in that about-to-boil pot
I mentioned, are Hollywood, entertainment world,
television, movies.
Not surprising, as we move closer and closer
to the disclosure event.
And most of us
negatively...
I would like to,
we'll just comment on that, I'll comment on that.
Not surprisingly, Hollywood is going alien,
I mean, we knew this was gonna happen.
They've always been in the subject,
they've made tons of money, billions, and billions
of dollars off of extra-terrestrial related.
The Day the Earth Stood Still .
Right, all the way back to the 50s.
But it's only grown, and grown, and grown .
Some of the most notable movies we know,
they're virtually legends, 2001: A Space Odyssey,
E.T.
Close Encounters
You know, extra-terrestrials for everybody, right?
Close Encounters of the Third Kind,
and let's not forget that massive 20-hour miniseries
by Stephen Spielberg, Taken, which is about abduction,
and a sort of theatrical history of UFO truth embargo.
A lot of people have forgotten about that,
it's still out there.
But then, and then one television show after another
with alien themes, many of them have already come and gone,
they didn't work.
There's six more in the pipeline right now.
Mork and Mindy. (laughs)
Even Mork and Mindy, though that dates.
You know, you just dated yourself.
And then the movies, and then I guess that the perfect
symbol for Hollywood's embracing
of this is, of course, Avatar.
Avatar comes out, and let's not forget,
it's about extra-terrestrials, okay?
Admittedly, they're ectomorphic, blue, really good-looking
extra-terrestrials, but the point is,
it's about extra-terrestrials.
And it doesn't do well,
it does two point seven billion dollars well, alright?
And I admit that the previous world record
was not an E.T. movie, it was about the Titanic,
which was a sinking ship, and that did well
because I think all Americans can relate
to a sinking ship, if you know what I mean.
But, no one should be shocked that the highest grossing
movie by a wide margin of almost a billion dollars
is about extra-terrestrials.
And there's more films in the works.
And people were very sympathetic to that message,
and it's message regarding the Earth itself.
Well, there's two things going on here.
Without getting into the negatives and positives,
nobody should be surprised that a lot of these E.T.
movies are scary.
It's just like horror movies, right?
But there also are positive E.T. movies.
I mentioned some, Starman, there have been plenty of them.
What's important here, and what I need to convey
to your viewers is this,
the people in this town are smart people.
They're wealthy, they're connected politically, right?
I mean, everybody knows that Hollywood
has got big political connections now.
So the idea that the Hollywood moguls, and producers,
and high-end directors don't know or haven't figured out
personally the E.T. presence is real, come on.
They know it's real.
And so they understand the importance of this subject,
and so that helps to ensure that they're going to engage it.
But more importantly, here's the dynamic
that's operating here.
As the polls have shown, 50% of the American people,
let's just talk about America, but this is true for most
of the first world countries.
50% of the American people believe privately
when polled, that the UFO phenomenon is,
in part, extra-terrestrial.
And 80 to 90% consistently will tell you under poll,
in polling, that the government
is not telling the truth about this,
but, as we know, it's still embargoed.
So, you sort of know that E.T.s are here,
you know you don't know the full truth about it,
but what can you do about it?
You can't, but still, it's there.
So Hollywood comes along, and makes movies
about extra-terrestrials, and so when you go
to those movies, this is your way
of connecting to the issue.
You can't get the truth from the government,
but you can experience it in the movie theater,
or in front of your television.
That's why billions of dollars are flowing into this town.
Interesting, yes, that makes total sense.
From the subject, not simply because, "Oh gee,
"E.T.s are a cool subject."
There is no other genre that generates this kind of money.
Now they're feasting on, essentially, this extraordinary
event in human history that's taking place.
I don't blame them.
I kind of wish some of those billions of dollars,
just a little bit, that's pouring in to Hollywood,
and into other entertainment areas
around the US, some of it might come back to the advocacy
work, to the people that are trying to get the government
to end this embargo.
The real deal, yeah.
And that just hasn't happened,
and I think it's unfortunate.
But in any event, without question,
all of these movies have served to advance the issue,
raise public awareness of the E.T. reality
to virtually 100%, which is a phenomenal thing.
I mean, if you were a business, and had a product,
and you had 100% recognition of that product in public?
You'll make a fortune.
So, as I've said many times, you can go out
on the street right now, and you can interview 100 people,
and 40 of them will be able to tell you
who the Vice President is, but 100 of them
will know what you're talking about if you say UFO,
or extra-terrestrial.
So, Hollywood has helped ensure we have 100 percent
awareness of this issue.
That kind of makes it that much more difficult
for the government to continue to maintain a truth embargo.
So Hollywood has definitely helped drive the process,
and that's a good thing.
Now, we can get into, those of us
that know a great deal about the UFO-E.T. reality,
naturally, are going to be sensitive to the content.
And so if you know a lot about the contactee's experiences,
and you talked to many of them,
and you're familiar with the research,
and you go see a movie like The Fourth Kind,
which is a very over-dramatic, hyperbolic,
misrepresentational approach, it's easy to get
a little upset about that.
But, on the other hand,
there is contact going on,
there are abductions taking place,
and that movie is somewhat reflective of that, and so,
my thinking is, "Hey, you have a right to do that,
"but over here, somebody else will do a movie,
"and they're going to do that."
So it all drives awareness.
Where they address it in different way.
But, it's all part, and this is reasonable, and of course,
you know our movies are exported around the world.
And so Hollywood hasn't just raised the awareness
of the U.S. citizens, it's raised world awareness.
I don't know what it is, but worldwide,
it's probably up in the 80 percent.
That means 80 percent of six point four billion people
are aware of the E.T. and UFO issue.
That's where we are today, and that's why the truth embargo,
of course, will end, and has to end.
Anything you want to add to that,
in terms of the people watching this right now,
in terms of what you, if they're interested in this,
and feel compelled to do so,
what are some things they can do from their computer?
Well.
I know they can come to your group and support you
because you're one of the only real political
activist groups out there, and I do understand that,
so that's one way to go, is to help support your work,
what are some other things they can do?
Well, first and foremost, people need to increase
their understanding of what's happening around them
with respect to this issue.
They need to make some effort to try to get up to speed
on this disclosure process.
And you have a massive number,
I just wanted to say this, you have a massive amount
of information on your site,
because that's what you've been doing,
is compiling...
There are many big sites
out there, if you were to go and google exo-politics,
you'll get tons of sites.
If you google UFO, you get tons of sites.
But my site, Paradigm Research Group,
is designed to have thousands of links outward.
But to the extent that people
are going to be a little more aware,
this is going to serve them well,
because this is a big deal coming,
and a little foreknowledge won't hurt, right?
And that will be helpful,
because it's to all of our best interests
that the post-disclosure world,
which starts five seconds after
a world leader announces that the E.T. presence is real,
go well, I mean, we want people to conduct themselves well,
we want to see some policy changes,
we want to see some things happen,
we don't want to see hyperbolic behavior.
So a little foreknowledge will help there.
That's the first thing they could do.
Secondly, they certainly can...
get in touch with their representatives,
and their politicians, some of their media.
They can make comments in articles that appear on the net,
or whatever, about their thoughts on this,
and sort of state what they feel about this,
and they can react to negative, or ridiculous
media coverage, or silliness coming out
of government on this,
they can do that, they can become somewhat proactive.
We definitely could use some of these people
who are blessed through their hard work
with substantial resources to maybe step forward,
and help to fund the advocacy work,
because we are in a sense,
the disclosure movement is not simply
an advocacy for disclosure,
it is an advocacy for the people's interest.
We are citizens engaging the government on this issue.
And to the extent that we can have significant
financial support, we can best represent the people--
And it's true, people like yourself,
doing this kind of work tirelessly for decades
have been operating on frayed, shoestring budgets.
No, it's the least funded major activist movement
in history, but there is a reason.
Unlike any other activist movement
you can refer to historically,
this issue, remember, was embargoed.
There was then a great deal of effort from the government
to tell people, "You can't, stay away from that,
"you can't go there, it's not in your best interest."
And so, where normally the power of the issue would invite
in a substantial amount of financial support,
it isn't there.
So people have to, sort of, get through that barrier,
that ridicule curtain, and say, "No, no, no,
"this is important, I'll fund it."
I should point out that the risk of supporting this work,
engaging this work are far, far less
than they were in past times.
This is not 1960, 1980, 1990, there's been almost no,
what I would call nastiness,
since the year 2000.
Now there are some issues out there
where nastiness still goes on, but not this one.
And obviously the attitudes of the public have changed,
media is covering it, again, thousands of articles,
and so the idea that somebody could not provide
a substantial financial support for this work
and was going to somehow suffer some huge embarrassment,
or be ridiculed, that's really minimal now.
And so I don't think the barriers are there,
but they're perceived to be there.
So obviously, we are looking for that,
if it's possible.
And in general, every conference
that someone attends, every publication they buy
or subscribe to provides a little resource to this.
And these are the things they could do.
Now, in the Paradigm Research Group's world,
there are some very specific things
'cause we have ongoing projects.
One, Facts on Washington, this is new
since we interviewed before.
The Facts on Washington dot org has been a,
it goes back to November the 5th of 2008,
so we're talking now two years,
was set up specifically to direct letters, faxes,
and emails to the government about this issue.
Now the target was the President Elect,
which was Barack Obama, and a lot of mail
and faxes were sent and emails were sent
to the transition headquarters.
After he took office, from June 20 to June the 1st,
it was then directed at the White House.
But since June the 1st, the Facts on Washington dot org
website is where you go now to see how you can
send a letter to the White House Press Corps
through their association, it's called the White House
Correspondence Association.
And so since June 1st of 2009, we have been directing
letters, faxes and emails to those reporters,
and this is very important, this is a wedge approach,
that, "Isn't it time you started asking
"the obvious questions,"
Very good.
"the tough questions?
"Isn't it time you started doing your job?
"This is a free speech country, right?
"And isn't it time you backed up your colleagues,
"so if one of your colleagues ask a question
"on this issue and gets a laugh from the podium,
"you stand up behind them, and say,
""Why don't you answer it?"
"Okay, in other words, why don't you do your job?"
So that's the Facts on Washington, so go to Facts
on Washington dot org and participate.
The other is the exo-politics world network,
of which I am probably the most proud.
This was launched in early 2008.
The website is Exo Politics World dot net.
And there's two things going on there.
First, we're trying to build a network of sites,
one per country, that is the portal for exo-politics
for that country, alright, or a portal.
Right now we'd be like 24, and more
are coming online soon.
And we're knitting them together
through naming protocol, so that sites are named
exo-politics United States, exo-politics France,
exo-politics, Germany, alright?
And that creates a network.
And then also the web address, the URLs,
the URLs, so most of the addresses are consistent
in this way, exo-politics United States dot US,
exo-politics France dot FR, okay?
And so we're creating this perceived network on the net,
on the web, of countries engaging the issue.
And they're cross-connecting with each other
and promoting each other.
And that's the exo-politics world network,
and it's growing.
Our goal would be about 50 to 100 countries,
that'd be fantastic, we're up to about 25.
Now just a few months ago, five months ago,
I announced from Budapest, on my last European tour,
that the next phase of the exo-politics world network,
which is the exo-politics cities initiative,
world network cities initiative.
What is it?
Simple.
Anyone who wants to set up an exo-politics talking group,
think, you know, book club.
Wouldn't be boring.
Definitely not, meaning, I hold a regular meeting
at my home, at the library, whatever,
for people to come in, say, once a month,
whenever, to talk about this issue.
You can register with the exo-politics world network
cities initiative.
Very good.
And what we do is we put it up there,
we put up exo-politics Los Angeles,
exo-politics Amsterdam,
and then the email of the host.
And we're already are putting those up, we're about 20.
And how many?
We could have thousands.
And so, no big deal, it's just a talking group.
No board of directors, no bylaws,
no rules, just a talking group, listed on that network.
Now, soon you'll be able to go there and say,
"Is there a group in my town?"
And then you can contact them and join up.
And so we're trying to build this grassroots discussion
out there through just a website, very simple,
very basic, but yet extremely effective
if people participate.
And so that's another way people can get involved.
And there are others, I'm sure.
Yes, well, and once you start going
down that rabbit hole, you'll find a lot of ways.
But what you're doing, I like that,
I like these, the last two you just brought up,
the exo-politics and the one previously--
The world network and the cities initiative,
talking groups, portals of websites.
Now exo-politics is the term, we didn't discuss this,
but exo-politics is the term that now is used to,
I think, harbor the citizen engagement of this issue,
the socio-political engagement of this issue.
It's not euphology, it's not a science,
it covers a lot of things, right?
But it's basically politics addressing the ET issue
in every form and fashion, that's why it's exo-politics.
Some people are offended by the term.
But we need a term, we need a nomenclature here,
and that's pretty much it.
And I think it will be a word in the dictionary very soon,
and I think it will be the established phrase.
So it's, I'm an exo-political activist,
this is an exo-political movement,
the disclosure movement.
And everyone can join, it's global.
The ET engagement of this planet is global,
it's not about a particular nation, race, religion.
They're engaging all of us, and all of our futures
are being shaped by this.
And I'll leave you with this.
One of the neat things about what's about to happen,
the disclosure event, when the announcement is made,
and the world, we move into the post-disclosure world,
I like to call it is, is that everybody crosses
that finish line, or beginning line, together.
Nobody's first, nobody's last.
We all go across, at that moment, at the same time.
I like that, it's a kind of moment of pure equality.
And then afterwards, we all start working to see
what we're gonna do and how we're gonna
be involved, and whatever, fine.
But in that moment the human race crosses
into the new world, in a sense, all together,
hopefully that togetherness will linger for a while.
But it will be a wonderful moment, and I think it's soon,
and I look forward to sharing that with you.
And we'll talk again, I'm sure, after that.
We certainly will, hopefully not five
years from now.
Oh no.
And thank you so much.
My pleasure.
To check deeper into Stephen's work,
you can visit his website
at Paradigm Research Group dot org.
It holds a wealth of information and ways
by which you can support his tireless effort.
Meanwhile, you might also enjoy our interviews
with Robert Dean, Clifford Stone and Barbara Lamb
on the subject of contact.
Until next time, thanks for watching CMN.
(percussion music)